==Configuration directives==
In the global section of the Apache's configuration, load the module 
{{{
LoadModule      /path/to/apache/modules/mod_icpquery.so
}}}

In the global, virtual server or directory server's context, define the external parameters for
{{{
ICPQueryMapper  [on|off]
}}}

After *icpquerymap* has send out a request, it will wait for at maximum this time until the caching servers replied. A timeout which is too high, will result in unnecessary delay. If it is too short, it increases the probability of missing an useful ICP-reply.
{{{
ICPQueryTimeout <time in microseconds>
}}}

Define the name of the debugging logfile for this module.
{{{
ICPQueryLog     </logpath/to/httpd/icpquery.log>
}}}

Define the logging level for this module. Logleves are:
*  0 = Log all kind of problems.
*  1 = Log the final result as delivered to the corresponding RewriteMap
*  2 = Log informative messages
*  3 = Debug logging
{{{
ICPQueryLogLevel   <loglevel>
}}}

Define a hostname or peer address and its port listening for ICP requests.
{{{
ICPQueryPeer   <peer>:<port>
}}}
If this configuration option is specified more than once, an ICP request is sent out to each of the specified addresses.

Define a multicast address and its port listening for ICP requests.
{{{
ICPQueryMCastAddr   <multicastaddr>:<port>
}}}
If this configuration option is specified more than once, an ICP request is sent out to each of the specified addresses.

Limit the spreading of ICP datagrams, sent using multicast.
{{{
ICPQueryMCastHops   <ttl>
}}}
Each router decreases the multicast TTL by one count. If the TTL
reaches zero, the datagram is not forwarded anymore.